Aor writing 4 (#180)
symbiotic-engineering/MDOcean: pubs/applied-ocean-research-model/sections/module-details.tex

These methods are not optimal control methods and do not incoporate constraints, although it is possible to sub-optimally enforce constraints by applying a saturation nonlinearity to the constrained quantity.
Finally, methods which combine frequency domain synthesis with constrained optmial control include constrained loop shaping (often enforcing performance constraints while minimizing the distance to an optimal loop shape, in this case the complex-conjugate impedance); linear spectral optimal control (OC), which poses a trajectory optimization problem for a linear system represented with global basis functions in the spectral domain; constrained impedance matching (IM), the narrow-band, frequency-domain equivalent of spectral optimal control; and convex control formulated using linear matrix inequalities (LMIs), typically in the context of robust control \cite{vanantwerp_tutorial_2000}.

> At the intersection of all three categories lies nonlinear spectral OC, pseudo-spectral OC, and the method used in MDOcean, which we call ``modified frequency domain.'' 

Author: ```suggestion
At the intersection of all three categories lies nonlinear spectral OC, pseudo-spectral OC, and the method used in MDOcean, which we call ``linearized pseudo-spectral OC.'' 
```

The pseudospectral method uses the same global basis function representation as spectral OC, but instead of enforcing the dynamics at all points in the trajectory, it does so only at specific collocation points, which enables the representation of time-domain constraints and nonlinearities as opposed to harmonic constraints and nonlinearities \cite{elnagar_pseudospectral_1995}.

> Pseudo-spectral methods often employ polynomial bases, although in wave energy Fourier bases are more typical.

Author: ```suggestion
Pseudo-spectral methods often employ Legendre or Chebyshev polynomial bases, although in wave energy Fourier bases are more typical.
```

In this case, the method is equivalent to a nonlinear trajectory optimization problem that enforces both spectral-domain harmonic balance and time-domain constraints.

> The modified frequency domain method used in MDOcean is a linearized version of the Fourier-basis pseudo-spectral method, borrowing the pseudo-spectral concept of incorporating time-domain constraints in the spectral domain but retaining only the fundamental harmonic to collapse to the frequency domain.

Author: ```suggestion
The linearized pseudo-spectral method used in MDOcean borrows the pseudo-spectral concept of incorporating time-domain constraints in the spectral domain, but retains only the fundamental harmonic to collapse to the frequency domain.
```

This is exactly analogous to the way that describing functions linearize the harmonic balance method.
It can also be thought of as the combination of describing functions with constrained impedance matching.

\Cref{fig:mod-freq-domain-synthesis,fig:mod-freq-domain-evaluation} distinguish two use cases for the modified frequency domain method: control synthesis (the design of a potentially nonlinear controller to obey constraints and maximize performance of the linearized system) and evaluation (simulation of an arbitrary controller's power performance, where the controller and/or the plant are nonlinear).

> MDOcean uses the modified frequency domain method for both synthesis and evaluation.

Author: ```suggestion
MDOcean uses the linearized pseudo-spectral method for both synthesis and evaluation.
```

> Other wave energy studies (see \cref{tab:lit}) have used methods that would fall broadly in the family of modified frequency domain methods for the evaluation use case, but with questionable simplifications that MDOcean avoids by differently handling constraints.

Author: ```suggestion
Other wave energy studies (see \cref{tab:lit}) have used methods that would fall broadly in the family of linearized pseudo-spectral methods for the evaluation use case, but with questionable simplifications that MDOcean avoids by differently handling constraints.
```

Meanwhile, MDOcean's use of the method for control synthesis appears novel in the wave energy space, and it is this application that really sets it apart, since other linearization methods such as stochastic linearization can facilitate the design of linear but not nonlinear controllers.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\begin{subfigure}[t]{1.1\linewidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figs/from-matlab/mod_freq_domain_ctrl_synthesis.pdf}
    \caption{Control synthesis - applies to (1.1) only.}
    \label{fig:mod-freq-domain-synthesis}
\end{subfigure}
\vfill
\begin{subfigure}[t]{1.1\linewidth}
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figs/from-matlab/mod_freq_domain_ctrl_evaluation.pdf}
    \caption{Control evaluation - applies to both (1.1) and (1.2).}
    \label{fig:mod-freq-domain-evaluation}
\end{subfigure}

> \caption{Flowchart depicting the modified frequency domain method with describing function linearization (1)}

Author: ```suggestion
\caption{Flowchart depicting the linearized pseudo-spectral method with describing function linearization (1)}
```

\end{figure}

> When handling dynamic constraints with a modified frequency domain method, first the system is linearized and the unconstrained optimal controller (and the response signals corresponding to that controller) are determined in the frequency domain.

Author: ```suggestion
When handling dynamic constraints with a linearized pseudo-spectral method, first the system is linearized and the unconstrained optimal controller (and the response signals corresponding to that controller) are determined in the frequency domain.
```

    \begin{tabular}{>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.25\linewidth}>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}p{0.7\linewidth}}
         \textbf{Dynamic nonlinearity/limit}& \parbox{\linewidth}{\centering\textbf{Method}}\\ \hline
         Drag& Describing function (M1.2) for $\sin(\omega t)|\sin(\omega t)|$ with iteration to find effect on response and optimal controller\\
         Force limit& Describing function (M1.2) for $\text{sat}(\sin(\omega t))$ with iteration to find effect on response and optimal controller\\
        Operational amplitude limit& Optimal linear controller (M2)\\
         Power limit& Average value of $\text{sat}(\sin(\omega t)+C)$, neglecting any effect on response and optimal controller (M3)\\
        Storm amplitude limit&Optimizer considers limit violations as infeasible designs (M5)\\
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{Dynamic nonlinearities and approach for each}
    \label{tab:nonlinearities}
\end{table}

Describing functions assume a certain time-domain nonlinear signal shape and then calculate the fundamental amplitude of that signal for use in a typical frequency-domain simulation.
The two signals where describing functions are used are both force signals.

> For a force signal, the fundamental amplitude is the most relevant harmonic because not only is it typically the largest amplitude, but it undergoes the least amount of filtering by the low-pass plant and therefore contributes the most to power production.

Author: ```suggestion
For a force signal, the fundamental amplitude is the most relevant harmonic because not only is it typically the largest amplitude, but it also undergoes the least amount of filtering by the low-pass plant and therefore contributes the most to power production.
```

\end{table}

The modified frequency-domain approach with the highest accuracy and optimality (M1) is to synthesize a new nonlinear optimal (or near-optimal) time-domain controller that obeys the constraint, taking into account the linearized effect of that nonlinear controller on the frequency domain response.
This synthesis can occur in a number of ways.
If a time-domain PMP control law is available for the constraint under consideration (M1.1), it can be used as the nonlinear optimal controller directly, essentially bypassing the use of the modified frequency-domain linearization in the control synthesis step (\cref{fig:mod-freq-domain-synthesis}) and using it only for evaluation (\cref{fig:mod-freq-domain-evaluation}).
This differs from the standard PMP method in that the evaluation of the response and power corresponding to the time-domain PMP controller is determined in the frequency domain, rather than via numerical time-integration (as in \cite{zou_optimal_2017}) or analytical time-integration (as in \cite{lin_fast_2025}).
This is advantageous if the computational cost or mathematical labor of the numerical or analytical PMP evaluation methods, respectively, are of concern.

> For situations without an explicit PMP control law (M1.2), a nonlinear near-optimal controller can be constructed by first deriving the optimal  linear controller via constrained optimization, and then adjusting it to be nonlinear using insights from signal saturation and filtering, which is the approach pursued here for the force limit.

Author: nvm this is correct

It is utilized here for the power limit.

As a last resort, the energy in that sea state can be zeroed (M4), essentially assuming that the device enters survival mode in those cases to avoid constraint violation, or the entire design can be marked infeasible with a constraint in the optimization (M5), which reference~\cite{mccabe_constrained_2013} pursues for a radiation limit constraint.
These approaches do not attempt to find dynamic solutions which satisfy the limits, and essentially deal with violations by penalizing the optimization through either the objective or constraints.
The latter approach (M5) is actually the only option for evaluation of slamming amplitude limits in the storm design load case.
This is because the device is already in survival mode (preventing method M4), is not producing power (preventing methods M3 and M4), and is not applying a control input (preventing methods M1 and M2).

> %Approach (M5) is also pursued here for amplitude limits in the operational design load case, in the interest of consistency and implementation expedience. 

Author: delete
